Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture.
We're going to take our lamp here and make it one unified object which does use the armature to move
it still and it will then work pretty much flawlessly whenever we export it.
Now there is a specific order in which we need to do things if you do them in the wrong order.
You will end up with your lamp blowing apart.
Now I'd like to take you down the journey of your lamp blowing apart but it's a bit frustrating because
we have to go right back to the beginning and repeat everything.
But I can show you that really quickly if we grab the whole idea behind this is that we grab all of
our model and we join it to just one object.
We can see this.
There are some issues there where we go ahead and play it with city arm which is still moving but everything
else is pretty rigid.
Course the base moves around there which is why we can see it.
Now what happens if we go ahead and what we need to do is apply an armature modifier to this.
And if the bones and named the same as the vertex groups what will happen is it should just work.
Well let's go ahead and have a look at adding that I'm going to need a new window just down here and
it's going to be a property's window.
I'm going to go down to our modifiers who's going to play the subsurface modifier for the moment scroll
up and at the top of the deform column the third column along we've got armature.
We go ahead and select that and under the objects we select our armature what we should find is that
it moves along.
And as you can see here the lamp blows apart and this if you get this effect then you've missed a step.
So it is quite critical that we don't do that.
Now before I go and revert the file back to the very beginning I just want to note here note says that
the arms themselves look horrible now.
If I don't even think they're mirrored and know that they married I haven't a clue.
It's certainly a big mess and we need to make sure that we apply modifiers as well before we start joining
things together because everything will inherit the modifiers of the object.
It's joint too.
So first of all let's go to file and revert our file.
Okay.
The first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to grab everything to do with my model here and I'm going
to unpack and say I'm gonna remove the parent to the armature.
If we don't do that first.
That's one of the reasons why it will blow apart.
Okay that's done.
But the first problem we've got here is the mirror modifier.
We've obviously got a mirror point in here I can't remember what we're using and it's now offsets and
we can solve that very easily especially since we're about to apply the mirrored modifier as well because
all we need to do is set it back to perhaps mirroring around the origin.
So let's do that now.
Let's come out of this view of control and space and we have this lower arm.
If we create ourselves a number window properties window scroll down to our mirror modifier.
Yes here we go.
The lower arm mirror.
I'm just gonna get rid of that.
This will be just reflecting about itself.
So how about we use something that we know is centralized and that's going to be the lamp base.
There we go.
Yes that's absolutely fine.
And we only need it for this one moment because we're about to apply all of our modifiers now do make
sure you apply them in order and by in order I mean from the top of the stack to the bottom if I now
apply the subdivision before the bevel it gives us a completely different result.
It's the same as swapping them round if we swap them around.
It would give us the same results.
So what we want to do is make sure we apply the ones on top first and we need to do that to the rest
of our model as well won't takes too long to do we've not got too many modifiers to apply.
And indeed your model perhaps doesn't have that many either lampshade none there.
Okay.
So that decouple from one another but there's still individual objects.
What we need now need to do is join them all together and the process of joining them all together.
If you cannot select them like this I'm having trouble selecting this lamps them here because of the
armature so we could hide the armature.
That would be one way or we could dive straight into the outline and select everything from the outline
that providing everything has been named appropriately.
But I'm pretty sure that I can manage to select the other two bits here.
Now I'm going to join them together with control and J noticed.
Now there's no changing of any of the objects themselves because they're not inheriting any of the modifiers
that have been applied to our model.
The next thing we do now need to do is add another modifier.
I'm going to scroll up here.
We've got an armature.
I'm going to add the armature modifier and we need to select an object.
So I'm going to pick the armature because the only one in I'll scene and notice these are moved back
straight away.
This is looking good.
And notice here there's a tick in the box that says bind to vertex groups in the modifiers options.
That's important.
That means that if the bone and the vertex group name are the same the bone will control that Vertex
group which is incredibly powerful.
And now let's go ahead and press play.
Eek.
Okay.
So I'm going to guess here that there's something wrong with the naming to do with these two objects.
So that's going to be your challenge.
Eve you've named everything the same.
You probably now have a working model and working animation if you haven't.
What's I'd like you to do is go ahead pulls a video and corrects that problem and I'll see you back
in a few moments
okay everybody welcome back.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to leave that plane because I think you never used to be the case but I think now we can modify
these in real time and actually see the effect it has.
I don't know the names of any of these vertex groups so let's go have a look.
We've got a base a stem a lower arm an upper arm and a lamp shade.
Okay.
So I think the stem itself is called something like lamp STEM but we can go and check that says hop
over into edit mode of our armature.
Here we go even though everything is moving around now so let's have a look at what these bones are
called.
We've got lamp stem and just shade at the top everything else appears to be working.
So shade and lamps them.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Select our model.
Go to the vertex groups.
So this is called lamp stem a look at that.
It's moving straight away.
Perfect.
Let's go to the lampshade and just make it called Shade case and nothing's happening there.
Now I know what the issue is here.
I thought as soon as I saw the padlock not sorted that it might be the case.
Let's go into the object itself into edit mode and I think that I did not assign a vertex group I'm
going to clear with a double A.
Okay with everything d selected if I go ahead and click select yes.
Okay.
So at some point I've forgotten to select or remove all of the detail at the top.
So in that one respect this could be a real pain in the backside but fortunately because we've done
everything else we can just select the inverse of everything else.
But if that wasn't the case I would literally have to go in perhaps select this individual vertex here
and go to control and plus to expand it but that only goes so far I can press the L key remember to
select linked objects as well for a fact I think I've selected everything there.
But if that wasn't an option for you the other thing that we could do in this particular case which
I think is quite clever is that we can make sure nothing selected we can select the base.
Let me make this area a little bit bigger.
Select the base.
Select the lamp stem the lower arm the upper arm and then with our cursor in the viewport we can go
control an eye then we get the inverse we can select shade assign an and lock that down.
Clear the selection and just make sure it works.
Okay.
So I don't know why that wasn't the case before.
I'm pretty sure I did do it but perhaps I got caught up in something else.
Now with everything named appropriately and all the vertex group selected a model is moving exactly
as we had it to let's make it look a bit prettier.
Look at that's awesome.
I'm not sure what type of rendering I'm doing at the moment.
I've actually switched over to using Linux at the moment so I'm very interested in seeing the apparent
improvements in a render speed.
That's certainly something that I've I've heard that you can have over Windows and Mac OS now it does
appear here that I don't have a ha I need you to scroll up on those tabs.
Something to watch out for is these tabs scroll.
There we go.
So yes someone GOP computes.
I think that's a bit faster than it used to be but I can't say objectively that is true.
Okay so I'm really liking how that works out.
I'm going to switch over to eevee for a second so I can see it in a bit more real time.
Take a few moments for the shaders to build and then we go look at that.
Perfect.
Now of course I've not got the lights turned on for TV sets up to turn those off.
Master you're using cycles but brilliant.
How are you guys getting on.
Did you manage to successfully rerecord your model.
Now it may seem at this point well why didn't we do that in the first place.
Just remember that to do things like the mirror modify hair might been a bit of a pain in the backside
if it wasn't a separate object to begin with and it's enabled us to build our model up piece by piece
without worrying about linking it together.
And when it did come to creating the vertex groups we just need to select the objects as a whole and
assign the vertex group.
It will keep the name of that Vertex group even though everything is joined together so it's kind of
a shortcut.
But by all means in the future if you're doing something like this you can just assign vertex groups
as your going.
Please share your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.